well after a Monday's attack the world
Central Kitchen suspended its operations
in Gaza and displaced Palestinians say
that they fear attacks like these will
lead to further suffering let's take a
look at other aid aid agencies who face
similar challenges there is the American
neare East Refugee Aid agency and it's
decided to stop its operations in Gaza
altogether the aid group had provided an
average of 150,000 meals a day in
partnership with the world Central
Kitchen in February the UN Agency for
pal Ian refugees unwa suspended its Aid
operations to Northern Gaza and this
came after what it called a collapse of
civil order and prevention of safe
passage for its trucks and other
organizations like the International
Medical Corps which has one of the
largest field hospitals in ra is also
thinking its humanitarian work in Gaza
we'll now speak to Sandra Rashid who's a
Palestine country director for the NGO
the American neare East Refugee Aid she
joins us from ramala that's in the
occupied West Bank uh Sandra Rashid
thanks for your time with us so at a
time when we hear over and over that
humanitarian Aid has to be scaled up in
Gaza because the needs are so immense
Aid organizations like yours have
decided to stop the humanitarian work um
what impact do you think this is going
to have on Palestinians in
Gaza yeah thank you thank you for having
me I think the the long-term impacts are
going to be dire we already know that
the situation on the ground is extremely
difficult even when anera was providing
close to 150,000 meals a day wck was
providing um as much and more and now we
are suspending we have not completely
stopped we're taking a pause right now
to see and to evaluate the safety of our
staff our staff have guided our work and
they themselves feel like there's a
Target on their backs and have requested
that we take a pause so that we can
ensure their safety So when you say you
take a pause can you give us some sort
of idea how long that suspension is
going to
last you know this all depends on um the
Israeli side it the indiscriminate
killing that's been taking on uh taking
place in the last six months uh your
colleague let you know that there was
173 unaa humanitarian Aid workers killed
in the last six months but that number
is over 200 for all humanitarian Aid
workers where we also see a high rise of
killings in for medical profession
journalists um civilians children we are
waiting to have some Assurance from
Israel and from the International
Community that doing this life-saving
work will not constitute putting a
Target on our staff's back so as of
today have you asked the Israelis and
the International Community for those
assurances and if you have have you
gotten a response and what has it
been we've been in discussion with um
both the Israelis and uh the
International Community Community we
we're talking on various levels and I
think that um what was said earlier is
that the world is in shock I think the
more that we have time to process this
the more surprising and shocking that it
is these are three convoys that were hit
by three different bombs um as you
mentioned through the roof of their car
which indicates a targeted killing um we
are all Reeling I think this is going to
take some some time from um the
International Community um I would hope
it wouldn't take too much time but time
from the International Community in
Israel to ensure that they would secure
the safety of our staff you touched upon
this in the beginning uh the impact that
it would have on people in Gaza um I
wonder if you can just expand on this a
little bit and tell us what impact uh
suspensions like these have on Aid
distribution efforts in the Gaza Strip
and particularly in the north of the
country where uh we understand for a
while now very very little Aid has been
able to reach the North
yes this is true um we as an era were
providing 20,000 hot meals in the north
every day uh we were working with wfp
and other convoys to provide trucks and
commodities to the north this is all
stopped the situation as I mentioned is
extremely dire we see that there is
starvation there are over 45 thou 45
cases recorded of death by
starvation so far and this is uh what we
see due to strictly starvation we don't
know how many deaths are related to
malnutrition um the situation in terms
of not having food supplied through our
kitchens or through food par Parcels is
extremely critical this was a very hard
decision for us to take we know that um
the situation Ona it keeps getting worse
the situation gets worse by the day uh
but as I mentioned we were forced to do
this this is something that we were
forced to do to ensure our safety um as
an as a your Palestine country director
and as an aid worker what do you think
Israel is trying to achieve by targeting
Aid workers in the Gaza
Strip I think that what we see is a
pattern of targeting humanitarian
medical journalist staff I don't to have
I I'm not in the heads of Israel
intelligence or strategist to understand
what what the purp is but we do see a
clear pattern of this happening okay
we'll leave it there Sandra Rashid we
thank you so much for speaking to us
from and the occupied West
Bank